Alright in this video we're going to
take a look at displaying the validation
messages using Thymeleaf. And the reason
I showed you in the last video the
errors object, I wanted you to get an
idea of what we had to work with. The
integration with Thymeleaf is pretty
solid and what we want to do, we now
have a property called fields so that
it's going to be returned then that's
how Spring and Thymeleaf work together. This is all built into the Thymeleaf Spring
integration. And you can see here on line
25, there I've added a Thymeleaf tag saying
if fields has errors and I'm using a
wild card. So if there's any errors there,
I'm going to display this div. And what I
want to do is use a bootstrap class
called alert and alert danger. So it's going
to give me a little red box to alert the
end user that there's problems that they
need correct. So by using the Thymeleaf
if statement, that is only going to display
if there are errors. Now let's scroll up here
a little bit and I'm going to go through
what's going on with the description
field here. So I've added in...a lot
of this is for the bootstrap formatting so
we're going to go to some really nice
formatting using bootstraps on
properties that have error. So this is all
standard bootstrap stuff and what I'm
saying here is if fields and the
description has errors, what I want to do
is add in this class. So I'm using Thymeleaf
class with a condition here. And so if
it does have errors, I want to have this
form group and have this has error CSS
class added. If it doesn't have errors I
just want these other two CSS classes
like we had before. Now the next
thing we also want to do is on the input
to add in the error class has error. So
what that is going to do is turn in
that input property and it will take it
from normal display to red. Now on line
42, I'm going to add in a help block and
this is also part of the bootstrap CSS.
So I'm adding a span
and I'm saying if again the description
fields has errors we're going to display
this. And in this, the property we can
have more than one validation there and
if it fails multiple times we're going
to have an array of errors. So that's what
we're setting up here is an unordered
list to display those errors. So you can
see there on line 44, I'm putting
out a list item iterating over the errors
and we're going to get that error text
display. So I've gone and added this
to the other properties that we added
validations for. I'm not going to go
through every one but this will be in
GitHub where you can check it out and
take a look at it. So let's go ahead and
take a look at this in action. I'm going
to start up Spring Boot and Spring Boot
is just about up there. Okay now I'm
going to toggle over to Chrome. Let's do
a refresh and we are up and what I want
to do is do an update and I'm going to
get this to fail. So I'm going to delete
that, set that zero. That's zero. Servings
what do we say, to like 10,000 servings. And then I want to make this a bad URL
so I'm just going to put some garbage in
there to fail the URL constraint. So I
think I got everything as far as what
we're validating. So now I'm going to
submit it and now you can see that this
is that div that we added, that
conditional div that says please correct
errors below and you can see how the
fields that failed validation are now
highlighted in red and now we have
bulleted properties of what was wrong. So
you can see on the description, must not
be empty and the size must between 3 and 255. So in the case of the description we had
two errors on that property and just to
reiterate what's happening is we go into
the Controller. Now we're going into
the Controller, the RecipeController and
we come in, the command failed so we have
bad binding there. So our validations
failed. So we get down here and it kicks
it back to
show the form again but we'll have
that ModelAttribute recipe there and
we'll also have the BindingResult on
the Model and that is tied through the
fields property. So now the fields
property is there because of the Binding
Result and we're tapping into that. So
this is all how Spring and Thyme
leaf have integrated their standard
error handling. It's a pretty robust
error handling so you can do quite a bit
with it and really display some really
rich information to your end-users on
form validation errors.